<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<title>79. Suggested Form for Infant Dedication -- Evangel Presbytery Book of Church Order</title>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	<meta name="EPB-UUID" content="" />

		<link rel="stylesheet" href="mcluhan.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<article>
<div class="chapter numberless" id="slug-79-suggested-form-for-infant-dedication"><div class="chapter-title-wrap"><h3 class="chapter-number"></h3><h2 class="chapter-title">79. Suggested Form for Infant Dedication</h2></div><div class="ugc chapter-ugc"><div><!-- pb_fixme --><p class="no-indent"><a id="79"></a><em>While infant dedication is not a sacrament, those who hold credo-baptist views may yet wish to present their child before the congregation, thanking God for his safe delivery, asking God’s blessing upon him, and testifying to God’s promises concerning our children. The following is a sample form which may be used where parents would like to publicly dedicate their children to the Lord.</em></p> <p><strong>Explanation of Infant Dedication</strong></p> <blockquote><p>It has always been a custom among God’s people to mark the blessing of the Lord in the birth of a child. Today, this family [these families] has come to give thanks to God for bringing this child safely into the world, to continue the duty and privilege given our father Adam in naming this child, and to testify to God’s promises concerning our children. We have therefore set aside this time to seek God’s blessing on this child, and for these parents to proclaim their commitment to raise him within the household of God, the Church, and to tenderly care for, disciple, and teach him the truths of Scripture. Alongside them, our church family pledges to be responsible for this child, to share in their duty to care for him, and to assist them in their teaching and discipleship.</p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>This dedication is an act in which the parents confess that this child is a joyful trust and stewardship from God. They also rejoice with the psalmist, who says,</p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>“Behold, children are a gift of the LORD,<br/> The fruit of the womb is a reward.<br/> Like arrows in the hand of a warrior,<br/> So are the children of one’s youth.<br/> How blessed is the man whose quiver is full of them;<br/> They will not be ashamed<br/> When they speak with their enemies in the gate.”<a class="footnote" title="Psalm 127:3-5." id="return-footnote-1102-1" href="#footnote-1102-1" aria-label="Footnote 1"><sup class="footnote">[1]</sup></a></p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>These parents also come to claim God’s many promises that He will be a God to us and to our children, as the Scriptures testify:</p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>“For the promise is for you and your children and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God will call to Himself.”<a class="footnote" title="Acts 2:39." id="return-footnote-1102-2" href="#footnote-1102-2" aria-label="Footnote 2"><sup class="footnote">[2]</sup></a></p></blockquote> <p><strong>Naming of the Child and Vows of the Parents</strong></p> <blockquote><p><strong>Pastor</strong>: Father, name your child.<br/> <strong>Father</strong>: [Gives full name].<br/> <strong>Pastor</strong>: As you come to dedicate your [son/daughter] [Name] to the Lord, I now ask you to reaffirm your faith by answering the following questions.<br/> Pastor: Do you confess your faith in God the Father, in Jesus Christ the only begotten Son of God, and in the Holy Spirit, the Lord and Giver of Life?<br/> <strong>Parent(s)</strong>: We do.<br/> <strong>Pastor</strong>: Do you acknowledge that this child is conceived and born in sin, that no one can enter the kingdom of God unless he be born of the Spirit, and that it is only by faith in Christ that this child may be given the blessing of eternal life?<br/> <strong>Parent(s)</strong>: We do.<br/> <strong>Pastor</strong>: Do you promise to teach your child the commandments of God, to live a godly and sober life before [him/her], to renounce the devil and all his works, and to show by your care and discipline the love, mercy, discipline, and righteousness of our Lord?<br/> <strong>Parent(s)</strong>: We do.<br/> <strong>Pastor</strong>: Do you acknowledge and claim for yourselves the promise of God that He will be a God to you and your children, such that it is your hope that your child may in God’s good time profess faith in our Lord Jesus Christ?<br/> <strong>Parent(s)</strong>: We do.</p></blockquote> <p><strong>Charge to the Parents</strong></p> <blockquote><p>Beloved, I charge you to teach your child the Word of God, to instruct [him/her] in the principles of our holy religion as contained in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, to pray with [him/her] and for [him/her], to set an example of piety and godliness before [him/her], and to endeavor by every method which God has given us to bring up your child in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.</p></blockquote> <p><strong>Vows of the Congregation</strong></p> <blockquote><p><strong>Pastor</strong>: Will the members of [Name of Church] please rise?<br/> <strong>Pastor</strong>: Do you, the congregation of [Name of Church], promise to tell this child of the Gospel of our Lord, to help [him/her] learn all of Christ’s commandments, and to assist [him/her] in living a godly and Christian life in the household of God?<br/> <strong>Congregation</strong>: We do.<br/> <strong>Pastor</strong>: Do you promise to help these parents raise this child in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, so that in due time [he/she] may confess faith in our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ?<br/> <strong>Congregation</strong>: We do.<br/> [Please be seated.]</p></blockquote> <p><strong>Prayer of Blessing</strong></p> <blockquote><p>Let us pray.</p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>Almighty and everlasting God, who of Your infinite mercy and goodness has promised that You will not be only our God, but also the God and Father of our children: we thank you for the safe delivery of this child through the pains and difficulties of labor. And we come to you now, humbly asking that you take this child under your fatherly care and protection, and guide [him/her] into faith. Allow [him/her] to grow in wisdom and in stature, and in favor with God and man. Abundantly enrich (him/her) with your heavenly grace: bring [him/her] safely through the perils of childhood, deliver [him/her] from the temptations of youth, lead [him/her] to a sincere confession of faith in Jesus Christ, and cause [him/her] to persevere in that confession to [his/her] life’s end.</p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>Father, please guide these parents with your counsel as they train and teach their child; and help them to lead their household into an ever-increasing knowledge of Christ. We commend to Your care the children and families of this congregation. Help us in our homes to honor You, and to lovingly serve one another. To Your name be all blessing and glory through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p></blockquote> <hr class="before-footnotes clear"/><div class="footnotes"><ol><li id="footnote-1102-1">Psalm 127:3-5. <a href="#return-footnote-1102-1" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 1">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1102-2">Acts 2:39. <a href="#return-footnote-1102-2" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 2">↵</a></li></ol></div><!-- pb_fixme --></div></div><div><!-- pb_fixme --><!-- pb_fixme --></div></div></article>
</body>
</html>
