<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<title>80. The Creeds -- Evangel Presbytery Book of Church Order</title>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	<meta name="EPB-UUID" content="" />

		<link rel="stylesheet" href="mcluhan.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<article>
<div class="chapter numberless" id="slug-80-the-creeds"><div class="chapter-title-wrap"><h3 class="chapter-number"></h3><h2 class="chapter-title">80. The Creeds</h2></div><div class="ugc chapter-ugc"><div><!-- pb_fixme --> <ol class="ch80"><li class="no-indent"><a id="80"></a><strong>The Apostles’ Creed</strong><br/> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>I believe in God, the Father Almighty,<br/> Maker of heaven and earth,<br/> and in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord:</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>Who was conceived by the Holy Ghost,<a class="footnote" title="Or, “Holy Spirit.”" id="return-footnote-1107-1" href="#footnote-1107-1" aria-label="Footnote 1"><sup class="footnote">[1]</sup></a><br/> born of the virgin Mary,<br/> suffered under Pontius Pilate,<br/> was crucified, dead, and buried;</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>He descended into hell;</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>The third day He arose again from the dead;</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>He ascended into heaven,<br/> and sitteth<a class="footnote" title="Or, “sits.”" id="return-footnote-1107-2" href="#footnote-1107-2" aria-label="Footnote 2"><sup class="footnote">[2]</sup></a> on the right hand of God the Father Almighty;<br/> from thence<a class="footnote" title="Or, “there.”" id="return-footnote-1107-3" href="#footnote-1107-3" aria-label="Footnote 3"><sup class="footnote">[3]</sup></a> He shall come to judge the quick<a class="footnote" title="Or, “living.”" id="return-footnote-1107-4" href="#footnote-1107-4" aria-label="Footnote 4"><sup class="footnote">[4]</sup></a> and the dead.</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>I believe in the Holy Ghost,<a class="footnote" title="Or, “Holy Spirit.”" id="return-footnote-1107-5" href="#footnote-1107-5" aria-label="Footnote 5"><sup class="footnote">[5]</sup></a><br/> the holy catholic<a class="footnote" title="Or, “universal.”" id="return-footnote-1107-6" href="#footnote-1107-6" aria-label="Footnote 6"><sup class="footnote">[6]</sup></a> church,<br/> the communion of saints,<br/> the forgiveness of sins,<br/> the resurrection of the body,<br/> and the life everlasting.</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>Amen.</p></blockquote> </li> <li class="no-indent"><strong>The Nicene Creed</strong><br/> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>We believe in one God, the Father Almighty,<br/> Maker of heaven and earth,<br/> and of all things visible and invisible.</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God,<br/> begotten of the Father before all worlds;<br/> God of God, Light of Light,<br/> very God of very God;<br/> begotten, not made,<br/> being of one substance with the Father,<br/> by whom all things were made.<br/> Who, for us men and for our salvation,<br/> came down from heaven,<br/> and was incarnate by the Holy Spirit of the virgin Mary,<br/> and was made man;<br/> and was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate;<br/> He suffered and was buried;<br/> and the third day He rose again, according to the Scriptures;<br/> and ascended into heaven, and sits on the right hand of the Father;<br/> and He shall come again, with glory, to judge the quick<a class="footnote" title="Or, “living.”" id="return-footnote-1107-7" href="#footnote-1107-7" aria-label="Footnote 7"><sup class="footnote">[7]</sup></a> and the dead;<br/> whose kingdom shall have no end.</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>And we believe in the Holy Spirit,<br/> the Lord and Giver of Life;<br/> who proceeds from the Father and the Son;<br/> who with the Father and the Son together is worshiped and glorified;<br/> who spoke by the prophets.</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>And we believe (in) one holy catholic<a class="footnote" title="Or, “universal.”" id="return-footnote-1107-8" href="#footnote-1107-8" aria-label="Footnote 8"><sup class="footnote">[8]</sup></a> and apostolic Church.<br/> We acknowledge one baptism for the remission of sins;<br/> and we look for the resurrection of the dead,<br/> and the life of the world to come.</p></blockquote> <blockquote class="hanging-indent"><p>Amen.</p></blockquote> </li> <li class="no-indent"><strong>The Athanasian Creed</strong><br/> <blockquote><p>[1] Whoever desires to be saved should above all hold to the catholic<a class="footnote" title="Or, “universal.”" id="return-footnote-1107-9" href="#footnote-1107-9" aria-label="Footnote 9"><sup class="footnote">[9]</sup></a> faith. [2] Anyone who does not keep it whole and unbroken will doubtless perish eternally.</p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>[3] Now this is the catholic faith: that we worship one God in Trinity and the Trinity in unity, [4] neither confounding their persons nor dividing the essence. [5] For the person of the Father is a distinct person, the person of the Son is another, and that of the Holy Spirit still another. [6] But the divinity of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is one, the glory equal, the majesty coeternal. [7] Such as the Father is, such is the Son and such is the Holy Spirit. [8] The Father is uncreated, the Son is uncreated, the Holy Spirit is uncreated. [9] The Father is immeasurable, the Son is immeasurable, the Holy Spirit is immeasurable. [10] The Father is eternal, the Son is eternal, the Holy Spirit is eternal. [11] And yet there are not three eternal beings; there is but one eternal being. [12] So too there are not three uncreated or immeasurable beings; there is but one uncreated and immeasurable being. [13] Similarly the Father is almighty, the Son is almighty, the Holy Spirit is almighty. [14] Yet there are not three almighty beings; there is but one almighty being. [15] Thus, the Father is God, the Son is God, the Holy Spirit is God. [16] Yet there are not three gods; there is but one God. [17] Thus, the Father is Lord, the Son is Lord, the Holy Spirit is Lord. [18] Yet there are not three lords; there is but one Lord. [19] Just as Christian truth compels us to confess each person individually as both God and Lord, [20] so catholic religion forbids us to say that there are three gods or lords. [21] The Father was neither made nor created nor begotten from anyone. [22] The Son was neither made nor created; He was begotten from the Father alone. [23] The Holy Spirit was neither made nor created nor begotten; He proceeds from the Father and the Son. [24] Accordingly, there is one Father, not three fathers; there is one Son, not three sons; there is one Holy Spirit, not three holy spirits. [25] None in this Trinity is before or after, none is greater or smaller; [26] in their entirety the three persons are coeternal and coequal with each other. [27] So in everything, as was said earlier, the unity in Trinity, and the Trinity in unity, is to be worshiped. [28] Anyone then who desires to be saved should think thus about the Trinity.</p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>[29] But it is necessary for eternal salvation that one also believe in the incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ faithfully. [30] Now this is the true faith: that we believe and confess that our Lord Jesus Christ, God’s Son, is both God and man, equally. [31] He is God from the essence of the Father, begotten before time; and He is man from the essence of His mother, born in time; [32] completely God, completely man, with a rational soul and human flesh; [33] equal to the Father as regards divinity, less than the Father as regards humanity. [34] Although He is God and man, yet Christ is not two, but one. [35] He is one, however, not by His divinity being turned into flesh, but by God’s taking humanity to Himself. [36] He is one, certainly not by the blending of His essence, but by the unity of His person. [37] For just as one man is both rational soul and flesh, so too the one Christ is both God and man. [38] He suffered for our salvation; He descended to hell; He arose from the dead on the third day; [39] He ascended to heaven; He is seated at the Father’s right hand; [40] from there He will come to judge the living and the dead. [41] At His coming all people will arise bodily [42] and give an accounting of their own deeds. [43] Those who have done good will enter eternal life, and those who have done evil will enter eternal fire.</p></blockquote> <blockquote><p>[44] This is the catholic faith: that one cannot be saved without believing it firmly and faithfully.</p></blockquote> </li> <li class="no-indent"><strong>The Chalcedonian Creed</strong><br/> <blockquote><p>We, then, following the holy Fathers, all with one consent, teach men to confess one and the same Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, the same perfect in Godhead and also perfect in manhood; truly God and truly man, of a reasonable<a class="footnote" title="Or, “rational.”" id="return-footnote-1107-10" href="#footnote-1107-10" aria-label="Footnote 10"><sup class="footnote">[10]</sup></a> soul and body; consubstantial with the Father according to the Godhead, and consubstantial with us according to the Manhood; in all things like unto us, without sin; begotten before all ages of the Father according to the Godhead, and in these latter days, for us and for our salvation, born of the Virgin Mary, the God-bearer,<a class="footnote" title="τῆς θεοτόκου, sometimes rendered “Mother of God.”" id="return-footnote-1107-11" href="#footnote-1107-11" aria-label="Footnote 11"><sup class="footnote">[11]</sup></a> according to the Manhood; one and the same Christ, Son, Lord, Only-begotten, to be acknowledged in two natures, inconfusedly, unchangeably, indivisibly, inseparably; the distinction of natures being by no means taken away by the union, but rather the property of each nature being preserved, and concurring in one Person and one Subsistence, not parted or divided into two persons, but one and the same Son, and only begotten, God the Word, the Lord Jesus Christ, as the prophets from the beginning have declared concerning Him, and the Lord Jesus Christ Himself has taught us, and the Creed of the holy Fathers has handed down to us.</p></blockquote> </li> </ol> <hr class="before-footnotes clear"/><div class="footnotes"><ol><li id="footnote-1107-1">Or, “Holy Spirit.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-1" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 1">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-2">Or, “sits.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-2" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 2">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-3">Or, “there.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-3" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 3">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-4">Or, “living.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-4" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 4">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-5">Or, “Holy Spirit.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-5" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 5">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-6">Or, “universal.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-6" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 6">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-7">Or, “living.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-7" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 7">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-8">Or, “universal.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-8" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 8">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-9">Or, “universal.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-9" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 9">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-10">Or, “rational.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-10" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 10">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-1107-11">τῆς θεοτόκου, sometimes rendered “Mother of God.” <a href="#return-footnote-1107-11" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 11">↵</a></li></ol></div><!-- pb_fixme --></div></div><div><!-- pb_fixme --><!-- pb_fixme --></div></div></article>
</body>
</html>
