<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<title>29. Amending the Constitution of the Church -- Evangel Presbytery Book of Church Order</title>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	<meta name="EPB-UUID" content="" />

		<link rel="stylesheet" href="mcluhan.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<article>
<div class="chapter numberless" id="slug-29-amending-the-constitution-of-the-church"><div class="chapter-title-wrap"><h3 class="chapter-number"></h3><h2 class="chapter-title">29. Amending the Constitution of the Church</h2></div><div class="ugc chapter-ugc"><div><!-- pb_fixme --> <ol class="ch29"><li class="no-indent"><a id="29"></a><a id="29.1"></a>The Constitution of Evangel Presbytery, which is subject to and subordinate to the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, the infallible Word of God, consists of its doctrinal standards set forth in the <em>Westminster Confession of Faith</em><a class="footnote" title="American revisions as adopted by the Orthodox Presbyterian Church in 1936, https://evangelpresbytery.com/westminster-confession-of-faith." id="return-footnote-50-1" href="#footnote-50-1" aria-label="Footnote 1"><sup class="footnote">[1]</sup></a>, together with the <em>Larger</em><a class="footnote" title="https://evangelpresbytery.com/westminster-larger-catechism." id="return-footnote-50-2" href="#footnote-50-2" aria-label="Footnote 2"><sup class="footnote">[2]</sup></a> and <em>Shorter Catechisms</em><a class="footnote" title="https://evangelpresbytery.com/westminster-shorter-catechism." id="return-footnote-50-3" href="#footnote-50-3" aria-label="Footnote 3"><sup class="footnote">[3]</sup></a>; the Book of Church Order, which comprises the Form of Government, the Rules of Discipline, and the Directory for the Worship of God; and the Apostles’ Creed, Nicene Creed, Chalcedonian Creed, and Athanasian Creed; all as adopted by the Presbytery.</li> <li class="no-indent">Amendments to the Book of Church Order may be made only in the following manner: <ol type="a"><li class="no-indent">Approval of the proposed amendment by the Presbytery and its recommendation to the Sessions.</li> <li class="no-indent">The advice and consent of a majority of the Sessions.</li> <li class="no-indent">The approval and enactment at a subsequent Presbytery meeting.</li> </ol> </li> <li class="no-indent">Amendments to the Confession of Faith and Catechisms of this Church may be made only in the following manner: <ol type="a"><li class="no-indent">The approval of the proposed amendment by the Presbytery and its recommendation to the Sessions.</li> <li class="no-indent">The advice and consent of three fourths of the Sessions.</li> <li class="no-indent">The approval and enactment at a subsequent Presbytery meeting.</li> </ol> <p>This paragraph can be amended only by the same method as it prescribes for the amendment of the Confession of Faith and Catechisms of the Church.</p></li> <li class="no-indent">Full organic union and consolidation of Evangel Presbytery with any other ecclesiastical body can be effected only in the following manner: <ol type="a"><li class="no-indent">The approval of the proposed union by the Presbytery and its recommendation to the Sessions.</li> <li class="no-indent">The advice and consent of three fourths of the Sessions.</li> <li class="no-indent">The approval and consummation at a subsequent Presbytery meeting.</li> </ol> <p class="no-indent">This paragraph can be amended only by the same method which is prescribed for the amendment of the Confession of Faith and Catechisms of the Church.</p> </li> <li class="no-indent">If by reason of the failure of a number of Sessions to act, or to report action, on any proposed amendment to the Standards, the response of the Sessions is not satisfactory to the succeeding Presbytery meeting, it may defer action for six months. In that event the Presbytery shall urge the delinquent Sessions to report their judgment to the next Presbytery meeting, which shall take final action on the proposed amendment.</li> </ol> <hr class="before-footnotes clear"/><div class="footnotes"><ol><li id="footnote-50-1">American revisions as adopted by the Orthodox Presbyterian Church in 1936, https://evangelpresbytery.com/westminster-confession-of-faith. <a href="#return-footnote-50-1" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 1">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-50-2">https://evangelpresbytery.com/westminster-larger-catechism. <a href="#return-footnote-50-2" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 2">↵</a></li><li id="footnote-50-3">https://evangelpresbytery.com/westminster-shorter-catechism. <a href="#return-footnote-50-3" class="return-footnote" aria-label="Return to footnote 3">↵</a></li></ol></div><!-- pb_fixme --></div></div><div><!-- pb_fixme --><!-- pb_fixme --></div></div></article>
</body>
</html>
